# Dermatological-disease-classification-using-deep-learning

Skin conditions are very common, and early diagnosis is essential for effective treatment and better patient outcomes. However, recognising skin disorders can be difficult due to the wide range of symptoms and physical characteristics of skin issues, as well as the lack of knowledge in some fields.  
Skin disease cases are rising in prevalence, and the diagnosis of skin diseases is always a challenging task in the clinic. Utilizing deep learning to diagnose skin diseases could help to meet these challenges. In this study, neural network is proposed for the classification of skin diseases. Since the datasets for the research consist of skin disease images, we propose image segmentation along with some pretrained models of deep learning.
 Automated skin disease classification using deep learning models can lead to quicker and more accurate diagnosis, shorter treatment periods, and better patient outcomes. The goal of this study was to develop reliable deep learning (DL) models for skin disease classification.
In this project, we propose Convolutional Neural Networks (CNN) trained on the dataset of skin disease images as a deep learning-based approach for classifying skin diseases. Iam intend to use transfer learning strategies to improve latest models like ResNet50, Residual transformers and ResNeXt along with latest image segmentation models i.e. DeepLabV3+ model and UNET model. In both models the segmentation model which is UNET acquires good accuracy than the DeeplabV3+ model. So, I choose UNET as segmentation model and ResNet50, ResT and ResNeXt as the pretrained model to train the dataset. Segmentation along with ResNet50 model accomplished 0.92726 accuracy. Here along with accuracies I calculated validation accuracy and F1 score.  
The proposed deep learning-based method has the potential to work effectively and quickly in diagnosing skin diseases, reducing on treatment wait times and enhancing patient outcomes in comparison to traditional diagnosis methods. In conclusion, our deep learning-based system for classifying skin diseases has the potential to significantly increase the effectiveness of skin disease diagnosis.

